We are returning to our full UI without
auto updating views from our data.
Here is our code, we've removed one
of our handlers, so it's a slightly
simpler implementation here,
a slightly simpler implementation here.
We are now just enabling the user
to type into the input field and
then for the preview of that to
show up in the associated div.
Okay, let's do it,
I think it is got ourselves back
into being familiar with it.
Note here the only changes we've made.
So we are going to set up post data or
put up post data in JavaScript memory.
We're then going to head to our
JavaScript, no, see, I really need to.
[LAUGH] We're gonna head to our dormancy
plus plus to grab our input and div,
we can't grab them and pull them
into JavaScript, just links to them.
We're then going to save our all
important function that converts our
data into our view under
all circumstances.
No manually changing our view
anywhere else anymore now,
just through this function.
Then we're gonna save our handler that's
gonna handle the user taking an action.
That's the outside influence of this
system that makes this system so
interesting and
hard to reason about, of course.
You can't see user action in code, there's
no line of code that says user takes
action, that happens outside of
the system and influences it.
Then in that handler, we're also going to,
if the user has, my goodness,
God forbid, that's a very
old-fashioned phrase, written will,
then we are going to remove the div
entirely because they need to learn.
That is not, anyway.
All right, we're gonna attach that to the,
I probably should have changed it to
something else, shouldn't I,
just rather my name.
But all right, then we're going
to have that data view function
be running on repeat when
the user changes the data.
Via the handleInput function running,
the view will change based on that data.
But just notice, I have a feeling,
well, I mean, we can see,
we're affecting what the user sees in a
place other than the dataToView function.
But we already were,
it was in the HTML code that we
already were affecting that view.
So I mean, look, as long as there's gonna
be some view that if it can't be changed,
I guess it doesn't matter per se.
But as long as it's possible to change it,
there needs to be data behind it
in our new one simple rule,
there must be corresponding
data associated with anything that
can change in the user's eyes.
I guess if the input and div couldn't
change, maybe it doesn't matter,
the only thing to change,
the content, maybe.
As long as it's possible for
us to remove and we are in this case,
now I'm worried that there is not
associated data determining whether or
not, in any given situation,
that div is there or not.
Instead, it's only in the situation
where the user is inputted do
we determine whether the div is there or
not, it's not otherwise.
Okay, so let's get started, people.
We're back, we're back, we're back,
we're back, we're back.
And so we are going to start,
what do we have?
We had our view, I guess,
our web page that was displayed and
rendered.
>> I think it's too big.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It is too wide, isn't it?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, it's too late now.
>> [LAUGH]
>> All right, and
then we're going to have our C++ model of,
let's get this one warmed up,
model of that page elements that
is just essentially a list.
Now, that is too small.
That is essentially just a list of
elements that we get to add to.
Technically is an object,
the O stands for object, but
it's an ordered list of elements.
So we can think of it as being on
ordered list of nested elements.
So we can think about it as being
a list for our purposes, it's just for
simplicity's sake.
Then we have a wall that divides our
JavaScript runtime from our C++ runtime.
Note, anything on this
list is added directly
through the layout and
render engines to the page.
We get to add to an ordered
list in C++ of objects,
technically an object of objects,
via some text in an HTML file that
we can load in with file open.
How often do you get to
add things to a C++ list?
Order list of objects by file open and
listing the things you want to add?
That's pretty powerful,
that's our HTML for you.
Super, super crucial language,
definitely something that we all value.
Because it is the most intuitive
thought free design language out there,
something we all value
in a very serious way.
So, we do.
So let's go and add some elements
to our C++ list in the DOM,
which is just the posh word for
this list of elements.
Let's do the HTML, starting with justice.
Let's add our three elements to
our C++ list via our HTML code,
which loads in, sorry.
>> I've got an input.
>> Yeah, okay, great.
Yeah, you're fantastic,
I'm just gonna remember I need to
show it loading into our schema.
There it is, the HTML parser.
Into that goes the HTML file that gets
to add things through the Web IDL.
So Web IDL also is
the description of the DOM API.
Remember, remind that just so for clarity
again, the DOM API is the borderline
English language description of
how we can access this C++ list.
It is written out in its formalized
structure through the interface
description language for all web
browser features, known as Web IDL.
And that is actually what allows the past
HTML code to be added to the C++ Dom list,
which is then produces
actual pixels on the page.
Justice, please go ahead.
>> Yeah, we've got an input.
>> Perfect, input, there it is.
Next.
>> Div.
>> Okay, see,
I've got to get myself back into it,
I'm gonna put it right to the left here so
we have lots of space.
Input, there it is, div, and last?
>> A script.
>> There it is, input,
div, script, beautiful.
They go to walk Justice on our page.
>> We see an input, a box.
>> Beautiful.
>> And then there's a div,
that's really not shown but is there.
>> Spot on, thanks, Justice.
Okay, now we go into, yeah, go, Mark.
>> Is it deliberate that in the code
dataToView doesn't check if
the jsDiv has been
detached by handleInput?
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah,
this is by design some
code that we'll at least have
to do some reasoning about,
let's say, yeah, absolutely.
[LAUGH] No, this is the sort of thing that
we'll want to be having to figure out.
>> We're on a journey.
>> We're on a journey, yes,
exactly, we're on a journey here.
All right, we're now loading JavaScript.
All right, no time for
jokes, now we're loading
JavaScript as soon as we
hit that script tag which
created a script node on
our C++ list of elements.
And that's gonna switch on JavaScript.
Here it is, JavaScript has a memory,
it has a thread, which is the posh
word for process ability for
the computer to run code line by
line of execution of running code.
It also has in its memory a bunch of
useful objects that are full of functions,
or get a set of properties that
are actually accessing features outside,
like the DOM.
So let's load up JavaScript,
here is its memory,
which is its store of data,
or that sounds good.
That's literally getting
the sizes wrong of every
single one of these cuz we
got no space to be wasting.
So that's a store of data,
which is fantastic,
because we said that for
any user interface, we are, one?
>> Displaying content.
>> And two, letting the user?
>> Change it.
>> Yeah, well done, everyone, especially-
>> [LAUGH]
>> I think it was everyone say
roughly the same thing.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Okay, and so
we need data corresponding to something
that they can see that can be changed.
Otherwise I can't change pixels
without corresponding underlying data.
Even if that data is just true or false,
even if that data is just show or not,
it's still data.
It's still not just pixels,
which are the manifestation of
some sort of state or data.
Okay, there we go, I'm gonna start, yeah,
showing that JavaScript runtime here.
So we have immediately in it
an object by the name of document.
Alexa, help me out with what's
in that document object.
We have a hidden property,
that is a link to let us access the DOM.
Beautiful, there it is,
a link to let us access the DOM.
The DOM, let's call it what it is,
the DOM, exactly.
Perfect, and
then we have a bunch of what on it?
>> Properties, which are probably methods.
>> And also some actual methods,
but it will not like querySelector
that lets us do what?
>> Interact with the DOM.
>> Yeah, beautiful, there it is.
Perfect, and
now we get into saving our data, and
we're gonna pick up the pace here.
Well, actually, Alexa, what are we doing
in line one of our JavaScript here?
>> We're declaring our post variable and
initializing it to an empty string.
>> Beautiful, keep me going, feel free to
sort of, I mean, to be fair, actually,
we're getting back up to pace.
So we'll do it steadily,
[LAUGH] don't need to.
So we declare what, Alexa?
>> Then we're declaring
our jsInput variable.
We're assigning it to the result
of invoking querySelector
on our document object
with the string input.
>> Brilliant, querySelector with
the input, with the argument,
this string of input.
And that is going to, let's just do
it again just to remind ourselves or
give me people.
What's its first thing that it's gonna do,
Alexa, in order, yeah, go ahead.
>> It's gonna use that
hidden link on the document
object to-
>> Head to-
>> Yes,-
>> To the DOM.
>> To interact with the DOM.
Where it's going to search or
query for what selector?
>> Input.
>> Brilliant, a selector is just
any label, actually, it includes
class names or IDs or other ways in
which we can select, grab an element.
And here we are grabbing which element?
>> Input.
Input, we can't retrieve it back into
JavaScript to make changes to it
because it's a C++ object, object,
object in C++ runtime, the DOM, the model,
the list of elements on the page.
So instead, JavaScript gives us what?
>> An object.
>> Well, yeah, a regular JavaScript object
with its own hidden property linking to?
>> The input node.
>> Into the input node, brilliant.
And also some useful functions that
will be applicable to editing,
accessing, deleting, removing, updating,
moving an input node, including what?
>> Value.
>> Value, and
I think we've got oninput as well.
>> Yes.
>> Brilliant, and that then is stored.
It's nice to go back over this people,
right?
Seems already hopefully relatively
familiar how this is, and
I'm sure you realize become our
standard model here, people.
So that's what's happened
inside querySelector, and
the output of it is stored into where,
Alexa?
>> jsInput.
>> jsInput, fabulous, and there it is.
And hopefully, we should be able to do
that somewhat by analogy for the next one.
Do you wanna keep me going?
>> Yes, after jsInput,
we're gonna declare a variable jsDiv, and
we're basically gonna do the same thing,
except we are gonna query the DOM for
our div this time.
>> Beautiful.
>> And the result that is stored under
jsDiv is gonna be a JavaScript object with
a hidden link to the div.
>> Beautiful.
>> And all of those automatic
getter-setter properties that let us
specifically interact with a div.
>> Fantastic, they're pertinent to the div
elements on the DOM, which include here.
Which one are we using?
>> Text content.
>> Okay, fabulous, there it is.
>> And remove.
>> And remove, perfect.
Thank you.
Okay, no, we'll add it in here and remove.
That's a crucial one, isn't it?
That's exactly what gonna use.
Brilliant, let's give a hand to Alexa.
[APPLAUSE] Here's really
good stuff from Alexa.
All right, let's move on to why,
what are we doing?
We've now got our two accesses, which is
great because we now have in JavaScript,
I guess, the ability to access and
change the pertinent,
the relevant for our user interface,
DOM elements, and therefore, view,
what the user sees, what the user views.
So why, what are we doing now?
We've saving two crucial functions here,
one that's gonna pipe data through to
the view, the other there's gonna pipe
action back to the JavaScript
environment from the user, okay.
>> Yeah, so
we're assigning two functions to memory
to call at arbitrary times later.
Do you want me to go into the actual-
>> Definition of them?
>> Well, I know you don't want that,
the steps inside.
>> Yeah, as long as we're not calling,
we wouldn't even touch the code inside, so
we don't even describe them.
I think for our mental model, it's always
best even when we define a function.
Of course, when we actually do
write the code, we look at it and
we think what it's going to do.
I think it's always best for
our mental model to not even
think about the code inside.
JavaScript isn't, it's just saving it.
And so what's the next one we save?
>> Then it's saving a future
input handler named handleInput.
>> handleInput, I wish I had better names
for those that were not, but yeah, okay,
beautiful.
And then I tell you,
I think a really challenging line,
line 15, because it pushes on the,
if you wanna see a function,
it's nice to see the keyword function.
If you wanna see a function run,
is nice to see params.
And yet on this line, in line 15,
we are using oninput as a setter,
which is acting as essentially a method
that is code running to assign on
the right-hand side a function that is not
gonna execute but is being referenced.
But later on,
we'll execute at point of user
action from the user over
here on the web page.
So that line is,
I think it's a tricky line,
a lot of things that don't
look like what it's doing.
Okay, so let's go through it, though.
So take it away why if you can.
>> So the function handleInput that
was defined inside the JS runtime-
>> Yeah.
>> Is getting passed to
the oninput method of
the jsInput object and
the hood would that oninput.
>> Yes, all right, gotcha, tes,
exactly, I'll write this up.
So it's going to, go look at the link
to which element in the DOM?
>> The input.
>> Input, perfect, there it is,
which would have a value property and
handlers including four input.
We'll just do input from the user.
And perfect,
we are setting its input handler to?
>> To handleInput.
>> Yeah, exactly, I'm sorry,
the terms are a bit.
Yeah, so it's gonna set its input handler.
None of this is happening in JavaScript,
this is just a setter-getter
that's going to pass this out.
As we saw text content being assigned,
we wouldn't want our hi or
our post to be assigned here.
We want to use this to set it out here,
but we do need to know these are different
runtimes, otherwise, they will behave
in ways other than we'd expect.
And so into the DOM,
we send our handleInput function.
And by the way, these terms,
I say handler's input,
they actually won't have exactly
these names in this instance or
instantiation of the C++ class for
an input element.
But we don't need to worry because we
access them from the JavaScript API
definition, or the JavaScript
implementation of the DOM API's
definition, which says oninput will do
the job and attach it as a handler.
What actually the C++ implementation
looks like will be specific to the given
DOM implementation, and
it doesn't really matter for us.
But roughly, it's handlers and
these are input one to which we
are gonna attach handleInput.
There it is, and
I'm just gonna separate these so
we cannot get too confused
about each element.
Great, good stuff,
now did I miss anything?
Yes, I did, [LAUGH] okay, I've got
more here, one more line to do, good.
Now, let's add our call stack here,
because I think we're about to start
having some specific things to think about
in terms of the ordering and
execution of code.
The ordering and the running,
and then our callback queue.
There it is, and we know that
there's also this event loop that is
checking whether there's
anything on the call stack.
And that all global code has
finished running before anything in
the queue of functions that have
been called back Into JavaScript
to run are added to the call stack.